## My Resume

### Ashlin Ferguson

Sacramento, California, USA    |    916-943-6450    |    ashlin2084@gmail.com    |    www.linkedin.com/in/ashlinferguson

### Career Interests

Microsoft SQL Server Database Development and Administration
Business Intelligence Development
Remote Work Preferred



### Summary

* 15 years of experience and growth with on-premise Microsoft SQL Server database maintenance, query design, and optimization, with roots in help desk service and user support
* Experience with end user communication to determine their data needs informing business decisions, resulting in design and development of data handling, aggregation, reporting, and summaries to fill those needs
* Design and maintain ETL processes to move data between flat files, MS SQL servers, and other types of RDBMS
* Deep familiarity with the use of SSMS, SSRS, SSIS, and Crystal Reports
* Some familiarity with Microsoft Azure, AWS, Azure Data Studio, Tableau, and PowerBI
* Licensed by the Shingle Springs Tribal Gaming Commission
* Held a Top Secret clearance in the United States Navy Nuclear Power Program
* Adept with use of Microsoft Office tools



### Experience

Oct 2016 - Present

Red Hawk Casino

Business Intelligence Analyst I  |   Business Intelligence Analyst II
* Crafted SQL queries for data processing, reporting, analysis, and user interface in both data warehouse and production servers.
* Created database objects such as tables, indexes, stored procedures, and functions to support reporting and data processing, including automation of aggregated data, and handling user input.
* Tuned and handled troubleshooting of  report failures and performance issues in SSRS and the data warehouse, as well as maintaining table statistics and indexing.
* Created ETL solutions via DTSX packages in SSIS to automate the import, export, and processing between flat files and SQL Server databases, between separate SQL Server instances, as well as importing data from other relational databases to SQL Server.
* Provided much of the heavy lifting for migration of the data warehouse and reporting environment from SQL Server 2012 to a new SQL Server 2017 instance.
* Designed and implemented SSRS reports to meet user needs for data-driven business decisions, as well as Excel workbooks for data extracts and summaries as applicable to the needs of the target audience.
* Due to the above automation of processes, responsibilities for departments such as Marketing, Revenue Audit, and Gaming Operations saw large benefits in regained labor-hours.
* Some exposure to DB2, MySQL, Postgres and Oracle database.


Dec 2015 - Oct 2016

FIS - ProNet

Service Delivery Coordinator and Client Services Manager
* Served as a resource for contact, knowledge, and escalation for clients across the Northern California region.
* Served as a layer of communication for Priority trouble tickets, and assisted with troubleshooting as needed.
* Sat in with clients for Technology Steering Committees and staff meetings as a technical resource.
* Handled scheduling and coordination of onsite and remote engineering teams for troubleshooting, hardware, and software installs.
* Ensured our engineering teams had all necessary contacts, resources, and documentation.
* Assisted with audit response for financial institution clients, including remediation of patching systems.
* Reviewed and approved monthly billing and metrics reports for each client.

Jan 2006 - Jan 2015

Bank of Sacramento

Systems Technician | Computer Operations Network Specialist  | MIS Department Supervisor | MIS Systems Manager
* Managed the MIS department, to include scheduling, training, and escalation of issues for technical operations and administration, internal user support, and customer support for Online Banking, Remote Deposit and Positive Pay systems as well as the Phoenix Core financial processing system.
* Assisted with regular federal audit and independent examination preparation and reporting.
* Completed review, maintenance, and testing of Disaster Recovery procedures to integrate with Bank of Sacramento Business Continuity Plan, including live Disaster Recovery exercises for networking and database environments.
* Handled business analysis requests for recurring and on-demand data reporting,  including solutions to complex data reporting requests that involved designing custom views, stored procedures, and tables.
* Led and performed regular testing of new patches for the Phoenix Core SQL Server database interface system.
* Created and modified various SQL Server queries and scripts to troubleshoot and repair damaged database tables.
* Handled project management for data reconciliation, annual technical compliance reviews, and implementation of new hardware and software solutions.
* Performed SQL database and file system backup and recovery.
* Rebuilt the SQL Server database test platform for the Phoenix Core database financial processing system.
* Led and performed regular testing of new patches for the Phoenix Core database interface system.
* Assisted with database, server, and network maintenance, testing, and upgrades.



### Personal Projects

* Participating in discussion and mentoring in multiple SQL community groups to assist people new to the field as well as sharpen my own skills
* Following new features in the latest version of SQL Server
* Increasing exposure to other RDBMS flavors
* Creating personal lab environments for SQL Server on Windows, Linux, and Azure
* Learning processes for Azure instance management
* Learning Powershell and Python
