## My Resume

### Ashlin Ferguson

* Sacramento, California, USA
* 916-943-6450
* ashlin2084@gmail.com
* www.linkedin.com/in/ashlinferguson


### Career Interests

* Microsoft SQL Server Database Development and Administration
* Skilled in query optimization, database tuning, data warehousing, and ETL processes
* Seeking opportunities for remote work



### Summary

* Nearing 2 decades of experience and growth with on-premise Microsoft SQL Server database maintenance and administration, query design, and optimization, on both OLTP and OLAP type workloads
* Experience with end user communication to determine their data needs informing business decisions, resulting in design and development of data handling, aggregation, reporting, and summaries to fill those needs
* Roots in help desk service and user support allow me to adjust my communication to a wide variety of levels
* Design and maintain ETL processes to move data between flat files, MS SQL servers, and other types of RDBMS
* Deep familiarity with the use of SSMS, SSRS, SSIS, and Crystal Reports
* Some familiarity with Microsoft Azure, Powershell, AWS, Azure Data Studio, Tableau, and PowerBI
* Adept with use of Microsoft Office tools, JIRA, Confluence
* Held a Top Secret clearance in the United States Navy Nuclear Power Program
* Licensed by the Shingle Springs Tribal Gaming Commission



### Relevant Experience

Dec 2021 - Present

AutoSoft DMS

Senior ETL Developer
* Provided support and guidance for database structure and data repair issues across multiple environments hosted on AWS for both development and production needs
* Participated in cross-team architecture discussions and decision making
* Reviewed code updates and processes for necessary improvements and optimizations
* Mentored junior team members to improve standards and best practices
* Served as an escalation contact during on-call hours for production environment database emergencies
* Monitored and responded to database and Availability Group health issues in all environments
* Provided stored procedure tuning and optimization to improve efficiency of struggling software features
* Supported clients during pilot feature testing with data review and cleanup
* Worked with Azure DevOps/Git Repo for version control/code control as needed, familiar with branches/commits/merges
* Helped to guide the team with planning and implementation of a long term project for ETL operations to support onboarding of new clients for the company
* Assisted with design, creation, review, and troubleshooting of complex SSIS packages


Oct 2016 - Dec 2021

Red Hawk Casino

Business Intelligence Analyst I  |   Business Intelligence Analyst II
* Crafted SQL queries for data processing, reporting, analysis, and user interface in both data warehouse and production servers.
* Created database objects such as tables, indexes, stored procedures, and functions to support reporting and data processing, including automation of aggregated data, and handling user input.
* Tuned and handled troubleshooting of  report failures and performance issues in SSRS and the data warehouse, as well as maintaining table statistics and indexing.
* Created ETL solutions via DTSX packages in SSIS to automate the import, export, and processing between flat files and SQL Server databases, between separate SQL Server instances, as well as importing data from other relational databases to SQL Server.
* Provided much of the heavy lifting for migration of the data warehouse and reporting environment from SQL Server 2012 to a new SQL Server 2017 instance.
* Designed and implemented SSRS reports to meet user needs for data-driven business decisions, as well as Excel workbooks for data extracts and summaries as applicable to the needs of the target audience.
* Due to the above automation of processes, responsibilities for departments such as Marketing, Revenue Audit, and Gaming Operations saw large benefits in regained labor-hours.
* Some exposure to DB2, MySQL, Postgres and Oracle database.


Dec 2015 - Oct 2016

FIS - ProNet

Service Delivery Coordinator and Client Services Manager
* Served as a resource for contact, knowledge, and escalation for clients across the Northern California region.
* Served as a layer of communication for Priority trouble tickets, and assisted with troubleshooting as needed.
* Sat in with clients for Technology Steering Committees and staff meetings as a technical resource.
* Handled scheduling and coordination of onsite and remote engineering teams for troubleshooting, hardware, and software installs.
* Ensured our engineering teams had all necessary contacts, resources, and documentation.
* Assisted with audit response for financial institution clients, including remediation of patching systems.
* Reviewed and approved monthly billing and metrics reports for each client.


Jan 2006 - Jan 2015

Bank of Sacramento

Systems Technician | Computer Operations Network Specialist  | MIS Department Supervisor | MIS Systems Manager
* Managed the MIS department, to include scheduling, training, and escalation of issues for technical operations and administration, internal user support, and customer support for Online Banking, Remote Deposit and Positive Pay systems as well as the Phoenix Core financial processing system.
* Assisted with regular federal audit and independent examination preparation and reporting.
* Completed review, maintenance, and testing of Disaster Recovery procedures to integrate with Bank of Sacramento Business Continuity Plan, including live Disaster Recovery exercises for networking and database environments.
* Handled business analysis requests for recurring and on-demand data reporting,  including solutions to complex data reporting requests that involved designing custom views, stored procedures, and tables.
* Led and performed regular testing of new patches for the Phoenix Core SQL Server database interface system.
* Created and modified various SQL Server queries and scripts to troubleshoot and repair damaged database tables.
* Handled project management for data reconciliation, annual technical compliance reviews, and implementation of new hardware and software solutions.
* Performed SQL database and file system backup and recovery.
* Rebuilt the SQL Server database test platform for the Phoenix Core database financial processing system.
* Led and performed regular testing of new patches for the Phoenix Core database interface system.
* Assisted with database, server, and network maintenance, testing, and upgrades.
